Conceptually, MEWIT is conceived ultimately to be different from traditional work-flow based system which require the setting up of routing instructions and business rules before the system becomes functional. In the beginning it is an advanced form of viral job ticketing and tracking system to improve the effectiveness of organizations, especially when collaboration across multiple organizational and political boundaries is required. Over time, the data harvested can be used to design a more integrated solution based on actual historical data captured in MEWIT. It is a form of knowledge capture.

To date, applications for collaboration such as Lotus Notes can be costly to implement and consume a lot of resources. These traditional applications also cannot easily cut across multiple organizations to deliver a particular service easily due to their rigid structure and licensing models. Users are added on Ad Hoc basis in a viral fashion using email as the main link. MEWIT is designed to complement these tradition systems where no systems can be easily implemented.

MEWIT is also designed to help Chief Executive Officers who need to be able to identify key actions and cascade these actions down the chain of command right down to the last personnel in an effective manner without necessitating the deployment of systems that may take months or even years to complete. The CEO as well as the managers of the government need a tool to deploy actions, capture and monitor collected information down the task tree, gain feedback and take remedial actions before issues explode into problems with embarrassing consequences. As the task travels from person to person, information, such as documents and data is captured and accumulated in the MEWIT system allowing relevant personnel to access information in a timely manner. The goal here is to spend more time doing the work that needs to be done rather than looking for the things that one needs to work.

Traditional database driven approach requires complex programming due to it's highly structured approach. Creating this structure has always been a major challenge within the Malaysian organizations be it government or the private sector. MEWIT is simple in it's deployment due to the unstructured, document centric way in which it is implemented. The routing engine is the human being itself from which the system learns over time. It has a web based, mobile based (coming soon) as well as a desktop client based component (coming soon). This draws on social networking for workflows.

It is entirely built with a highly modular concept on Open Standards to allow the best fit of technological tools required for a particular requirement. All tools such as content intelligence, statistical analysis, heuristics and the like can plug into the main open source component of the MEW using open JAVA based APIs.

At the same time, a complementary rather than a displacement approach to existing systems. As the system tracks and documents the flow, modelling of the complete system can take place based on actual work being done. This is an evolutionary based approach that allows a greater chance of success in building large scale systems.

Furthermore, metrics gathered on used of the system can be used for the the measurement and tracking of HR resources, identifying areas of over and under utilization as well as a more accurate assessment of civil servants performance for the purposes of appraisal and counselling.

MEWIT is comprised of several components. MEWIT is somewhat similar in functionality to many PIM applications such as Lotus Agenda, Zoot, Outlook but with connectivity to task items that have been delegated to other team members. By virtue of it's simplicity, embodying the concept of less is more, it is much easier to use and can be integrated via open APIs to the planned future premium services that allows collaboration, knowledge capture that traditional systems have not been able to achieve. It has one simple single minded purpose, to do things on time.

Due to it's highly modular and open standards nature, deployments are at a speed of hours and days rather than months and years. These value added services exist in the network as a service and serves to orchestrate activities with many actors across many organizations in a seamless manner.


As an example are issues on Land which can involve Mine and Natural Resources, The State Governments and any number of parties and individuals who need to work on changes in legislation to achieve a purpose. At present this process is to complex and convoluted using paper trails that it takes years to achieve anything if at all (well, at least that is true here in Malaysia). Changing legislation is a nightmare. We envisage MEW as a tool that can cut across all boundaries and connect everything together within the context of a common goal by tracking tasks and deadlines accross all the virtual team members.